text|label
Twitter users awoke Friday morning to even more chaos on the platform than they had become accustomed to in recent months under CEO Elon Musk after a wide-ranging rollback of blue check marks from celebrities, journalists and government agencies. The end of traditional verification marked the beginning of a radically different information regime on Twitter, one highlighted by almost immediate impersonations of government accounts; the removal of labels previously used to identify Chinese and Russian propaganda; and a scramble by the company to individually re-verify certain high-profile figures such as Pope Francis. A broad array of media organizations lost the gold verification badges Musk’s team had developed months earlier as an alternative to traditional brand verification, reflecting those organizations’ apparent refusal to pay for the badges that now cost $1,000 a month. The Twitter account is displayed on a phone screen in 2022. Elon Musk's Twitter begins purge of blue check marks Several prominent Twitter users including LeBron James, William Shatner and Stephen King also refused to pay to keep their verification badges, prompting Musk to personally intervene. Appearing to sense the problems that might ensue if those users went unverified, Musk said Thursday he would pay out of his own pocket to ensure James, Shatner and King’s profiles continued to be verified.|Sci/Tec
Known as one of the oldest-recorded meteor showers, the Lyrids are expected to produce 10 to 15 meteors per hour for three nights centered around its peak of 9:06 p.m. ET on Saturday, according to EarthSky. The Lyrids have been making their appearance in the sky since April 15 and will hang around until April 29, but their peak is relatively narrow compared with the famous summer Perseids and other showers. The best time to view the Lyrids — with a chance at seeing the most meteors — will start late evening on Saturday through the early morning hours on Sunday. Shining like a brilliant beacon amidst a sea of galaxies, Arp 220 lights up the night sky in this view from NASA's James Webb Space Telescope. Webb telescope captures glowing starburst as galaxies collide The good news is that a near new moon will leave perfect viewing conditions, with no bright light interference from what a full moon would cause. “The moon will obscure all but the brightest meteors, so when there’s no lunar interference, you can see bright, faint, all meteors that show up,” said Robert Lunsford, the fireball report coordinator for the American Meteor Society. “The chance for surprises (with this upcoming shower) are pretty small, but since we have no moon in the sky and it occurs on a weekend, we encourage everybody to give it a shot, check it out.” In an area away from light pollution, observers can expect to catch one meteor every five minutes, Lunsford said. If you are near a city or bright lights, expect one every 15 minutes or so. Occasionally, the Lyrids have exceeded expectations, with outbursts of up to 100 per hour averaging every 60 years. The next outburst is expected for 2042, according to the society. While no outbursts are predicted for this year, the Lyrids could still be worth your time, with a portion of them fireballs, extra bright meteors in the sky, Lunsford said.|Sci/Tec
A three-time Olympic medalist and two-time world champion on the track, the win in London, one of the world’s six marathon majors, is the latest addition to the Dutch athlete’s remarkable running CV. Hassan spent much of her debut marathon wondering when she would drop out having stopped to stretch an injured hip just after the hour mark. She later said she had forgotten to tape up her leg before taking to the start line. Incredibly, Hassan appeared to shake off the injury and even picked up her pace as she gained on the lead group. She had made up the lost ground by the closing stages, narrowly avoiding further disaster when she swerved towards a motorbike to collect her bottle from a drinks station. Apparently unshaken by the near miss, Hassan recovered and had enough energy to outsprint Ethiopia’s Alemu Megertu and Kenya’s Peres Jepchirchir, the Olympic marathon champion, in the shadow of Buckingham Palace, breaking the finish tape in two hours, 18 minutes, and 34 seconds.|Sports
It’s time to sing a requiem for a meme. Meme stocks, that is. Companies that attracted rabid followings from traders on Reddit and other social media sites in 2021 are struggling. Just look at GameStop. Shares of the video game retailer, which will report its latest results after the closing bell on Wednesday, have plunged nearly 35% this year after surging by more than 685% last year. GameStop (GME) is expected to report a quarterly loss of $84 million and sales growth of just 4.5% from a year ago. The company is also said to be in the midst of a round of layoffs, according to a report from Axios. GameStop (GME) was not immediately available for comment. But GameStop isn’t the only meme stock, many of which became popular with traders because they thought it would be funny to try to punish hedge funds and other investors that were betting against them, that has fallen on hard times. Shares of movie theater chain AMC (AMC) have plummeted 55% this year. And the new preferred class of stock that AMC (AMC) issued earlier this year, which has the ticker symbol of “APE” as a nod to the loyal fans on social media who refer to themselves as “apes,” plunged more than 90% from its peak price.|Business
Foreign powers have rescued embassy staff and nationals caught in Sudan’s deadly fighting, even as on the ground many Sudanese are stuck in deteriorating conditions. At least 50 people were injured and an unknown number killed in shelling that rocked the capital Khartoum on Monday, the Preliminary Committee of Sudan Doctors’ Union said in a statement. Meanwhile foreign governments led rescue efforts to evacuate civilians from the intense conflict. US special forces helped bring almost 100 people – mostly US embassy staff, as well as a small number of diplomatic professionals from other countries – to safety over the weekend, US officials said. Many other nations are scrambling to do the same, with more than 1,000 European Union nationals evacuated so far.|World
The improvements were first made to burgers in international markets, the company said, and have already arrived in some US cities, including Los Angeles, Seattle, Phoenix, Las Vegas. They’ll be available nationally by early next year. The changes follow other improvements to key menu items. In 2018, McDonald’s announced that it was switching to fresh beef for its Quarter Pounders, a complicated move with a big sales payoff. In 2021, it launched a crispy chicken sandwich to replace previous iterations — a relatively late arrival in the chicken sandwich wars, but one that seems to have resonated with McDonald’s customers.|Business